that's my personal recording I don't
want to do that um I are you the host
right now Jack I'm not I'm not the host
I've never been a
host
Carol can you go over and see Eric is in
his office if he's in his office is Eric
in his
office he I believe believe he is let me
run down and check right okay Jeff yes
you're the host so you can you can hit
record but does it give you an option to
say record to the
cloud record to the
computer so it doesn't give request host
to start Cloud
recording Eric is here but I guess he's
downstairs trying to get our internet
back I'm running down there
now they
lost with this little skin yeah it could
be
yeah okay is there is there a way that
something pops up Jeff that says record
to the cloud for you no um when you hit
when you hit record the record button
what does it say
well I was looking under host
tools right and it gives me an option it
has checked record to
computer right but on the bottom there's
a menu it should say like participants
chat is there a record button on the men
on the menu down there
no there should be a great big toolbar
across the bottom with a big red button
in the middle it says record yeah yeah
but I'm not the I'm not the host it says
Eric Eric was the host yeah but you PA
Paula wait just a minute Paula excuse me
um if if Jeff would go in under the
where it says more it says recording
there so I think maybe that would help
him well it's okay one one person a Time
Jeff when Eric left the meeting the host
got passed to you you're the host right
now and says you're recording so you
need to you need to stop the recording
and then you have to you have to start
it back up
and tell it to record to the
cloud it actually is saying it's
recording to the cloud but in a normal
circumstances it tells everybody on the
meeting it's recording so that's why I'm
fearful so Jeff it did that it says
recording to all of us so are you guys
seeing it up in your top screen that
it's recording to the cloud yes
us okay so it's my so it's my bad I I
apologize I thought I can't see it on my
end so I didn't think we were recording
so get start but we have to make sure
it's recording to the cloud that's why
I'm saying it does because I tried to
stop the recording and it said stop the
recording to the cloud and so just said
forget it perfect then we're good to go
okay good to go all right I am so sorry
everybody's got to listen to that
technological stuff on our recording but
novices as Adrian said brain power
right okay so uh I'm going to call to
order the board of selectman regular
meetings Monday August 12th at uh 7:08
PM uh our first call our first item of
business is the Pledge of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag United States Amica
to stands one nation one nation
indivis indivisible
Liberty okay one
second okay there we go all right um
item two uh additions and changes to the
agenda does do any of the members uh
board select members have any changes
they'd like to
make all right hearing none I'll I'll
move on to item three public speak um so
I'll go around the list I'll start with
Kathy
pazi thank you
Jeff um I'd like to just read a little
bit here I want to thank the following
people who have done an outstanding job
with our new community and Senior
Center uh and actually I'm using
CSC for all my calendar issues for the
transportation because everyone knows
now the senior know that it's the
community SE and Senior Center so anyway
having said that the first thing I want
to say is uh Adrien mandaville I want to
thank all these following people who
have done an outstanding job with a new
community and Senior Center uh Adrien
Manville for leading the charge with
preparing for an architect and
construction builders for all the hours
he's been trying to get the building
ready to be built there were a lot of
background work hours that I know for a
fact that Adrien was involved in that um
I'd also like to thank the building
committee who met monthly to try and
have the best possible building for the
town and our $1 million that we had from
the state or maybe that was Federal I
better not say that um Ed Ed sley
chairman did a great job organizing us
and Diane cat was our secretary members
were Don Denley herb Stanley tar Hunter
Scott pan Jeff Murray and Mike and Kathy
pazi I hope I didn't forget anyone um
the recreation committee I'd like to
thank them for Saturday or for
everything they do but for Carol Lee our
chairman she's unbelievable she work so
hard um Kim HW and amarie dagel and I
also apologize that I did do not know
the names of our other uh Recreation
committee members and I'll make it a
point to find out who they are so I do
apologize to any of you that I have
omitted uh everyone worked very very
hard Furnishing the food and the
beverage uh decorating and games for the
kids uh cleaning up afterwards it it was
a great great event Diane cat and KY D
roia I'd like to thank them for
decorating the community and Senior
Center it looks wonderful to Paula King
our senior liaison and our select person
who organized the entire event inviting
our Representative Steve we and Senator
MD Raymond it's oh Ramen maybe it's
always nice to see them in endover the
decorations look very nice and inside
paa organized wine and cheese table and
tours and for all all the people to view
the building um outside games and food
and beverages for everyone great job
Paula um and and Beautiful by the way a
beautiful uh agenda I really like the
program so that's a memory I shall keep
it Jeff Murray and Ann CR select men for
giving chores and answering so many
questions my goodness um Scott Pon who
followed up on all the details with
regards to the building spending hours
there talking with Builder making sure
we had everything needed meeting with
Eric for hours hours out of his personal
time uh Jeff Maguire a first selectman
who did an excellent job opening and
closing the grand opening event
excellent work and hard work by all and
thanking our Town Administrator for
taking over adrianne's job when he
became ill Eric did outstanding work and
dedication to an important project huge
Kudos from our endover seniors Eric they
enjoyed having a private walk through on
Friday and meeting our new senior
director thank you to Roland brial for
for building the seniors a beautiful
table Tio anen for her beautiful lovely
needle point scarf for the table and we
are having beautiful flowers from tu's
Farm uh Aaron is the owner every two
weeks so it's going to be just just
wonderful there and to our
beautification committee for the lovely
plantings and front of the building
Kathy D roia bill D roia Valerie Gera
Lorraine liswell Lorraine westenberg and
Joan and Jim Ross and also I want to
thank Christine ranzo for the beautiful
landscaping and tree that she planted
that's really nice I think it's going to
be gorgeous next year uh and to the
public works department for the help
with all the work they did there on the
site trying to put together our uh what
do we call that little wall that we have
I know there's a name for it um and
especially thank you to everyone who
attended it was a great occasion and fun
for our town thank you thank you thank
you you're muted Jeff yeah I'm working
on it Mike do you have anything Dad no
she said enough perfect perfect perfect
um Shannon
lobin um first of all I want to Echo
what uh Kathy just said it was a
terrific event and thank you to
everybody um all those who put it
together all those who did the center um
it just really reflected well on Andover
and I really enjoyed it now to get on to
what's happening tonight um I just want
to say in addition to my strong
opposition to many of the proposed
Charter revisions about which I'm
already on the record I believe that a
few of the questions that were put on
the website um are confusing and maybe
even somewhat
misleading um but before I get to that I
just had thought of one additional
argument in reviewing the proposed
changes to the Charter about why
appointing the town clerk might be a bad
idea um in reviewing it it looks as
though the brand new board of Selectmen
who have just been elected two weeks
after they're elected are going to then
be responsible for appointing a critical
position of the town clerk
that means that potentially three people
could be deciding on that position but
it also could be three brand new people
who have just been recently elected and
maybe don't have the um background to be
able to make such a selection so I think
that's another reason that I would
object to or oppose appointing the town
clerk position with regard to question
number c as it's worded I think it's
very misleading because it suggests that
the board of selectman's authority might
be curtailed or limited instead of
accurately reflecting or detailing the
proposed transfer of authorization to
enact Town ordinances from the town
meeting to the board of Selectmen so I
think that specific question and the one
after it need more detail um so that
they're not confusing or misleading to
the public uh when they go to vote on
these very important questions um come
November and finally um I think the last
question is one of the long EST runon
sentences I've ever read um and that's
saying something for a lawyer um I think
it should be broken into at least uh
three questions possibly one about 304d
one about section 108 and the other
about maybe some minor amendments and
Provisions I really don't think that
304d the change is there and one8 are
relatively minor amendments and
Provisions I I think that they're more
substantial and therefore deserve um
potentially their own questions thanks
very
much thank you Shannon uh Linda
fish hi just here to
listen got it Dian
grer you're muted unmute
unmute nope still not working
all right you work on that and you try
to come back we're not hearing you at
least I don't think I'm the only one not
hearing you so you keep working on your
stuff I'll move on to someone Katherine
mcal
Lewis ask to
unmute that work yes there you go thank
you thanks I just want to say that I
agree with um all of Shannon's points
and uh it makes no sense as I said
before I didn't
really matter to me whether it was
appointed there were good and bad to
both appointing or electing the town
clerk but if it reads as though every
four years a new board is going to come
in and perhaps decide to get a new town
clerk makes zero sense
the whole point was to hopefully get
someone that would stay on for a while
so every four years doesn't make sense
um I'm kind of disappointed not kind of
I'm very disappointed in the Bor lechman
that they went through because your Jeff
you would said to everyone we don't
actually have a charge we're going to
listen to What the residents want well
every single one of us including myself
stood up and said no this is not what we
want as far as the ordinances and you
guys voted on it anyway
so um that that was very
disappointing and one of the other
reasons that you said about the town
clerk was that nobody comes forward and
I do believe that you have had people
come forward and instead of choosing
those people you had a couple of people
there was one person in particular that
came before the board of finance and she
was turned down and we they went with
someone that they have known for a while
um I put my name in for the chatter
and to me it just kind of made sense
that if you had someone on board that
has been on a charter commission before
that rewrote every single line of the
charter so kind of knew it backwards and
forwards to my mind if it was a business
and a manager was saying hey we're going
to redo this and we'd like somebody who
knows something you would choose that
person and none of us even got a letter
or anything to say thanks but no thanks
so I think you do have people that are
willing it's just having them be
chosen so that's it all right all right
thank you um there's a phone number uh
that ends in
6988 that is me and Patty hi do you guys
have anything to say I'll go through the
the charter revision Commission in
public speak no you just we can't we're
we're good we don't have anything for
public speak all right no problem Bob
hamburger
nothing to add at this time thank you
okay Karen
midor nothing at this time thank you all
right I'm sorry Jerry cre I missed
you okay can you hear me yes sir I'm
here now um I read through the charter
revisions many times
over and I have to say that the only one
I can support is the first one that
aligns our elections with the state of
Connecticut uh the the rest of them I'm
really bother me I can't support them
because it takes away
the power of the town meeting and the
residents themselves and I think that's
one of the things that makes us unique
is that residents can get together have
a town meeting and can make decisions
together and on top of that I mean to
give the selectman more power
I think you're taking the power away
from the people and you're giving it to
the selectman I have a a relative on the
bo of selectman and I wouldn't want to
see her have that power I would rather
have the people of the Town vote and
elect and pass ordinances and whatever
needs to be done you've got a great town
here we've got a great town here you saw
by the turnout at the uh at the
festivities on on Saturday afternoon
I mean people will come out and people
will support what they want to and I
think that uh you need to do something
about the last revisions that you got on
this paper after the first one because I
I can't support it because of
that okay thanks for listening no
problem um Diane grer am I back you are
we can hear you
technology okay um I just wanted to say
I agree with C Kathy pazi thank you very
much um and Shannon about uh thank you
thank you thank you to everybody that um
made the community Senior Center um a
reality it's a thing of beauty something
that I think all end of residents are
going to be really proud of and I was
delighted to have a tour um preview on
Friday with the the seniors um and like
I say it's it's a great thing I
especially like the view of the
community G
um off the back windows it uh highlights
that garden and all the work that those
people have been doing and I think uh
that's a wonderful thing so again I just
want to add my thank you to um all that
were involved thank you all right thank
you very much um Adrian would you like
to say
anything can you hear me yes great um I
actually want to say um although I did
make it to the ceremony on Saturday for
um uh medical things um I wanted to say
I'm I'm glad that the community was able
to turn out so well and um I
appreciate everyone that pitched in when
I had to step back um but I especially
want to give uh Eric some credit um Eric
you did a great job and I know it was a
lot of work um and if you hadn't stepped
in it would have cost us an arm a leg so
once again you saved the town some
spending and um you know we can't thank
you enough but more importantly I think
that as a town resident it was just as
important to you as it as it is to all
of us so as a you know it makes a
difference that you're not just our
manager but you live here so we
appreciate that everything you did you
know um and I will say
um um as a as a
former um our previous Charter
commission chair um before this most
recent one um I feel like we had a
pretty good group um and uh I know that
some of the things can be confusing
maybe we need to look at that or make
some changes on the um on the wording
but in general speak I think you know
that's the whole point of this that's
that's why I had a meeting tonight but
that's the whole point of the layers you
know goes the charter
commission back to the board of
selectman and if it needs to go back to
the Charter commission well that's what
we're here for tonight so that's the
point of the process it works just have
to let it
work that's all I got all right thank
you very much did I miss anyone else I
don't think I did but I just want to
make
sure okay um we're g to move on to item
four which is uh related to the Charter
revision um
there are a b c and d related to uh the
charter revision but I'm going to sit
there and go to the Charter revision
commission so
um what the board of Selectmen did at
their meeting uh when they when we
reviewed the the draft was there was a
comment from one of the residents
regarding the 10%
requirement for a referendum uh total
number
and we had requested and since I'm on
both of these I'm going to speak a
different like two different ways but we
had requested that that 10% number be
dropped so that there is no threshold
for the number of Voters that would be
needed at a referendum if an ordinance
was up so if only five residents came to
a referendum and those five voted no it
would not pass so the the number was 10%
that would reference about 20 250 to 220
residents would be required to vote if
219 as Mrs Hutchin gave as an example
219 showed up all voted no uh it still
would go into effect because it didn't
meet the 10% threshold so the board of
Selectmen would like to remove that
wording from the draft and we had
approved the remainder of the draft as
is so um that's what we're we're we're
looking to vote on um today for the
charter revision Commission because
Dennis and correct me if I'm wrong if
the charter revision commission moves to
have that wording changed uh then the
draft was accepted by the board of
Selectmen and then we need to go to
drafting questions is that
accurate yeah that's pretty much
accurate I think the uh it's laid out in
the agenda the first item is as you've
already begun as a for selectman and a
member of the charter revision
commission uh there's one item that was
changed by the board of Selectmen from
the draft report finalized previously by
the charter revision commission and it
just eliminates some language that is
included in the
agenda and uh the first item is to
discuss that with the charter revision
commission and the second item is for
the charter revision commission to vote
as to whether to go along with the board
of Selectmen
and remove that language from the draft
Charter okay all right so Bob as the
charter uh rev commission revision
committee commission chairperson I'm
gonna put this on you right
now um honestly I while I'm still
formally chair uh I think I should
continue to relinquish the chairmanship
to one of the other members because of
my uh diminished health at this point so
if the vice chair if Carol would like to
speak up and take it from here I think
that would be
appropriate Carol this is this is really
quick if you would like I will do
it okay that would be great you can
propose what the board of Selectmen
voted on with um reducing that amount
and then we can just call the vote okay
okay that'd be great so I'm going to as
a as a charter revision commission
member I am going to make a
motion that
we remove the 10% of registered voters
of the Town requirement in referendums
related to the ordinance referendum
requirement someone like to second that
I will second the motion all right thank
you
discussion on this this point yes
Charter revision commission members yes
Adrian actually it's Jody oh Jody Hi how
are you Jeff my question for you is at a
town meeting today is there a minimum
number of individuals that need to be at
a town meeting for that to um Be an
Effective event or or to be a an event
that you know is there 25 requirement of
25 or 50 people at a 25 25 a quum of 2
okay so what what the board of Selectmen
are asking us to do is have a referendum
if five people show up for a referendum
then that that that's
fine I guess that's that's right that
that is actually what is being requested
in Jody just from a technical standpoint
there's no way that there's only going
to be
there there's two votes that this these
could take place in there's the vote for
the budget and if the Charter issues
pass then the the two budgets are
Consolidated so the ram budget and the
town budget vote would be Consolidated
got it so I got it so you're what you're
essentially saying is by virtue of when
they happen there's going to be a big
bowas of people in town coming correct
got it so effectively we're gonna hit
that 10%
regardless why not remove it is really
the thinking or or or based on that
resident's comment you you guys thought
it would be best to just remove it yeah
we're just trying to make it as flexible
as possible for the residents to sit
there and and you know Mrs Hutchinson
made a good point if there's a threshold
and you get right below the threshold
and they all vote no then the item still
goes into effect because it was below
the threshold now your point was very
well taken in that we have 25 people
that are required to show up at a at a
town meeting or it doesn't take effect
so um I understand where you're coming
from I don't think
theody I'm completely in favor of
removing it um and I think I'll well
I'll take the the stand here while I
have the voice here I I honestly think
this is better for the town a referendum
is a much better mechanism than a town
meeting um I personally was unable to
attend a 7 PM meeting at the last town
meeting and um you know as as a citizen
I think a referendum is a typically a is
a larger full day vote on something so I
think it's better governing to actually
have it in referendum um so anyhow I
just wanted to add that little um um
sentiment um so I'm I'm I'm in favor of
it here here any any other discussion on
the 10 percent uh Bob good yeah I have a
just a general question which I guess I
would direct to Dennis about this is
there anything in the Connecticut
General statutes with regard to any type
of referendum where there is a minimum
vote
requirement well you and I talked over
the weekend about uh you asked me about
the seven Dash uh I can't remember the
name the the uh number of you know there
is a requirement for referendum under
General statutes
yes but but like as I told you before
when you have a charter it's a home rule
act Charter and you you can you can make
up any kind of a system that you want in
that regard as long as it is not
something that would be um uh of
Statewide importance in other words
important to all towns and whatnot and
very there's very few items it's the
same law that enabled uh enabled us last
year to bifurcate our our referendum
into uh uh if there's a second go round
into Board of Education on the one hand
and town
government on the other hand separate
referendums that is that in the statutes
uh talk about a unitary referendum but
when you have a home rule act Charter
gives you the opportunity to change it
so this is this is a different from the
statute regarding referendums in general
it's also a different system this is
only a a limited referendum that would
be called on on the basis of a petition
against an ordinance that had enacted by
the board of Selectmen so in particular
there's nothing really in the statutes
governing this type of particular
situation so this is new what I think
I'm getting at here Dennis is that if we
don't explicitly State something to the
contrary then don't the Connecticut
General statutes
apply no not
true not exactly no you mean say it
right out in the charter if just is not
this is not uh not going along with one
of the Connecticut General statutes no I
think if you did that Bob about all the
Connecticut General statutes that don't
apply uh when you have a charter you
have a long Charter that covers a lot of
items there's an awful lot of items that
are covered in the general statutes
regarding um oh how a town Town managers
all there's there's items about
everything that are that are overruled
by a home rule act Charter and you don't
have to say expressly that this
is you know contrary to what the
statutes say it's not it's not a problem
I I I I have
no uh okay let's just go this way it's a
section 7-1 157 Connecticut General
statutes it talks about 15% of electors
need to petition to send to referendum
it's a state statute that's great 15%
we're we're we're making it zero so we
are making it more flexible and giving
more opportunity for the town to make a
decision we're not going higher we're
not saying you need 20 or 30% so to
me let's look at it this way when I was
talking to about who is who's going to
take umbrage at this the state of
Connecticut is going to come and say you
wanted to put uh a
uh a pet ordinance on your books and you
didn't take 15% of the electorate to
show up and it therefore doesn't go into
effect I mean it just doesn't make it
doesn't P any doesn't make any sense to
me Bob I told you that the last time
when we talked about it that we're doing
it we're we're being more flexible for
the residents of the Town we're giving
the
town voters more flexibility not less
flexibility I understand completely what
you're saying Bob's point is Jeff he
there's nothing explicitly said in our
Charter so he's asking is it a default
so we we we don't
say 0% that's not what the of
selectman's asking for they're asking
for silence nothing well we're saying
whoever comes and votes so it's
basically zero do you want to sit there
and say zero we can say
zero I would actually prefer to say what
the town meeting had but yeah I'm I'm
fine with no nothing zero or 25 listen
if you if that's the case Dennis if if
the charter revision commission wants to
say 25 which is the threshold for the
town meeting can we say 25 and send it
back to the board of selectman and can
the board of selectman pass that tonight
25 to show up at at the at a referendum
at at a referendum yeah yeah you could
but you know what if you do that you're
going to uh you're going to delay the
process and we are late as we as it is
and we I asked I asked you a specific
question can we do it 25 tonight from
the charter revision commission and can
can we vote on that the board of
Selectmen right after this if you all
agree on it yes both boards agree on it
but but I think what you're you're you
know I Bob was just trying to understand
are we are we putting oursel back in
that 15% but you're saying from a legal
perspective Dennis that that's not the
case that by being silent on it in our
Charter we're we can do that and we
could have less than 15% and a
referendum is valid from a legal
perspective that's your your take
absolutely correct Jody okay then I'm
okay leave whatever the board of
selectman suggested then I'm fine with
it Bob are you good I'm fine with things
I just wanted to get on the record
exactly what you and I are discussing
here so that nobody else can question it
because in my mind this was an open
question I think it's been resolved I
think Dennis has stated the case uh
eloquently and and with sufficient
detail so we should just move on okay
Karen
Adrian um I I think this goes back
to um intent so as Dennis pointed out
because we have a home Rule
Charter um and there there was clear
discussion if if there were some issue
that came up later in time and someone
challenged it the fact that this board
and the board of or that the board of
selectman and the charter commission
discussed it specifically there has been
made clear intent and therefore there
should not be an issue if we had never
discussed it at all it might have been
more of an problem I would
say okay so does the charter revision
commission wish to move forward with
zero or 25 I think we actually have
didn't you make a motion to I did I did
we have a motion on the floor and have a
motion on the floor we need to address
yes but before we start to address it if
it's more applicable for everyone to to
put 25 in there we could sit there as a
TR revision commission 25 in there move
forward yeah I'm fine with what was
drafted by the board of Select me to
remove it based on the comments the
discussion agreed agreed that's the
motion that's how unless someone wants
to modify the motion that's the motion
on the floor we need to vote on no
that's fine all right so uh any other
discussion on this this
issue all right so the charter revision
commission we're going to vote on this
so all in favor I I I I okay so that is
everyone voted uh it was unanimous if
I'm accurate so one two three four five
six seven okay we have all seven members
of the charter rision commission with us
it was
70 and so now we can move on so I'm
gonna move back to the board of
selectman meeting
um and
so we we now the board of Selectmen at
our last special meeting we voted to sit
there and accept the draft with the
change that the charter commission has
now voted on and approved and then we
would move to ballot questions which is
item uh 4
d I would like well well Jeff you could
you could you know do the formality of
voting of the board of selectman voting
to confirm the final report that this is
the final report of the charter
commission removing that one one set of
language all right so um will not be
choosers okay let let me make uh I will
make a motion that the board of
Selectmen approves the final draft of
the charter revision commission with the
removal of the 10% threshold for uh
ordinance
referendums I'll second time
okay further discussion from the board
of
Selectmen
um Paula you still on with us
Paula yeah I'm trying to get on with my
computer but I I didn't hear back from
Eric so I'm in the waiting room on my
computer did you give him the host I did
Eric probably didn't recognize or
realize I gave him the host back okay so
Eric if you could let Paula back
in we still have no internet
here you guys are still he's still on
anyway Paulie you're on the phone so
let's vote on this is there any other
discussion from any other members of the
board of
selectman no all right all those in
favor I I I okay all those
opposed all those that abstain so and
you you vot in favor yeah okay I just
didn't hear you and didn't see the hand
stay up okay um now on to item 4D on the
ballot questions um I I would very
much rather have the ballot questions
hosted for a longer period of time and
then come back and address the ballot
questions I do think we need to clean
them up so the members of the board need
to provide to Dennis uh comments and
requests on to how to improve those
ballot questions and then I would like
to schedule a quick special meeting to
move those ballot uh questions along
another Zoom meeting if uh unless anyone
has any objection to that that's what
I'd like to do with the ballot questions
I'd like them posted so the residents
see them right now we refine them then
we repost them and get them sent to the
Secretary of State's office anybody
problem with that might ask a question
sure
um would you have any objection to uh
Charter commission members having just
giving some input absolutely submit
something in writing would that be
acceptable absolutely thank you
yeah um anyone from the public can
submit requests or or requirements but
what I'm saying is I don't want to go
through the questions as they are
drafted right now at this meeting and
approve them I don't think I'm prepared
for it I'm not sure if any of the other
members of the board are prep and if
they want to do it then we can do it
tonight anybody how would we submit our
comments you would you would send an
email to to the board and we would sit
there and make sure that Dennis got them
and then we address them all do no it
would be better just to send them to
Eric you know all of our emails go to
all the members of the board of slan and
Eric is copied and then Eric can sit
there and work with the the town
attorney or I can work with the town
attorney to sit there and make sure it
gets
done okay all right um Paula good to see
you and and everybody we need to give
Paul a big thank you for the work she
did on the on the grand opening
celebration she did a great job um it
was it was a team effort so the
recommission as well deserves a lot
um Carol thank you and an Marie dagel
and and Kim Haws and everybody else from
the recommission that did it um greatly
appreciated um okay um does anybody have
a problem with pushing the ballot
questions off until a special meeting
which will happen within the next two
weeks okay then I'd like to do
that so we are now moving on to item
five board and commission presentations
Library board of
directors and Eric if this is not
something that we continue ly do I think
we just keep doing the library board of
directors is there anybody from the
library board of directors that wanted
to speak to
us no can I just ask a question can the
charter revision commission members sign
off at this time oh you're you're
members of the public and you can sign
off whenever you'd
like okay perfect just want to make sure
thank
you yeah oh back to the library board
yes I'm on the library board and I
believe that that agenda item is Jeff
Ballard with the um burnap clock burnap
Daniel burnap clock
location it was kind of put on hold
until after the community center was
settled okay so we'll deal with that at
another meeting yes um do you want it on
the agenda in the future or
not I believe that he he's waiting for
the board of Selectmen to decide
I think he wants it in the the library
board also in the old community room not
the new community
center okay we'll sit there and deal
with this Eric this is something that
you me and Paula and and and and anyone
else from the board of selectman that
wants to participate we'll figure out a
spot for it we'll determine if we can
accept it if we can't accept it we'll
get it off the agenda next meeting all
right um 5B the Community Gardens uh
permission for solar panels and
pump I'm not seeing Jeff Ballard with us
but Eric do you have info so that Jeff
Balor did share with me the proposal for
doing that um I think what they had
sized for solar panels and a solar pump
would work but I think it's an a
solution kind of searching for a problem
personally I mean right now I don't see
any problem with just using the hose
from the community center rather than
spending 4,000 you know some odd dollars
to to um come up with a solar pumping
solution if we were out in the middle of
a corn field in Nebraska I think that
would be a great uh a great solution
here not so
much okay um we'll keep this on the
agenda for next next month if Jeff will
come and share with us his thoughts and
we don't need it right now because we're
at the end of our growing
season okay uh item six appointments
Community Center and Senior Center
Director CSC director I like that so I
sent you a copy of a proposed contract
between the town and somebody who would
take over the position as the senior
center director hopefully most of you
that you met them at the meeting my
suggestion is that if we're going to
have a serious discussion about that we
do so um in executive
session um you know unless you want to
just vote on approval if you don't have
questions about the contract you could
just vote on approval now um or we could
discuss it in executive
session um let's try to get through this
and we'll go into executive session on a
quickly because we have the other
contract that we have to deal with as
well I believe so right
all right item seven
resignations uh we did get one
resignation that's not on here Brian
Briggs has notified the town that he is
resigning from the board of Finance
because he's moving out of
town wasn't he also on the
recommission
yes okay so we have two
vacancies um all right good luck to
Brian and his
family thank you for volunteering it's
appreciated uh Town Administrator report
item8 so I did not send you a formal
report this month I was going to use my
time as the administrator report to go
over the list of grants that we have
going and just bring you up to speed on
that um unfortunately that's sitting on
my town computer and I'm borrowing the
internet connection in our community
center at the moment because we're still
not online so I just don't have that in
front of me um so I'd be happy to answer
any particular questions that the board
has but I don't have a formal report for
you this
month all right how is all the road work
going with the public works
department uh so far road work has gone
well um now what we need to do is
re-engage on drainage work because we
let a lot of that slip this summer um
while we were dealing with Community
Center and some other things so that's
going to be the next task up is getting
back and and we need some sort of
solution on Aspen Drive um we have one
really bad spot in that road um and then
we need to get back to working on uh
Skinner Hill Road that that's really
kind of the next priorities right now in
terms of Public Works is
drainage are they using a new track
tractor Eric I thought I saw the old
tractor
out the new tractor is they're using the
new
tractor yeah I was going up Long Hill
this afternoon doing
mowing they were out using the sweeper
on Lake this
morning I'm just saying I'm stating a
fact but I'm asking how has the sweeper
been
working it's kind of kind ofate from my
standpoint I
mean well so the problem just is we have
to sweep from time to time when we get
these heavy gravel events and heavy rain
events especially on lake and there's a
couple other roads where we get
persistent material washing into the
road so we often will sweep this is not
the normal spring sweeping this is just
us addressing that because you know
we've had problems with stuff washing
into the road lately
okay all right anything else related to
Public Works that we should be aware
of no not at this point okay anybody any
of the other Selectmen uh select select
people have any questions for Eric
specifically related to any open
items um Eric any update on the welcome
to Andover signs or sign uh we've paid
our half um we've had some corresponden
with them back and forth but I don't
know that it's uh they finished building
it yet I haven't gotten any notification
to that
effect so the balls in their court right
now correct okay
correct and then just as one thing
because I I never you know we really
probably should put this on here is
where is the
um and Scott I think you're on it where
is the field committee or where is the
committee on the Grant related to the
pickle ball and the field in the
playground I'm can answer we're waiting
for uh the
formal engineer drawing everything
should be done but we're waiting him for
him to formalize it so he can bring it
to a meeting we had a meeting with him
last week we changed a few things and
he's supposed to be bringing it back to
us so we can have a meeting with him
with full uh
committee okay that's all we're waiting
for a lot of the other stuff is all
done and Eric the timing on that Grant
just so we're
aware uh in terms of
what well
is I mean I would like that done as soon
as possible personally so I'm asking you
is when can we access that what what are
the the the parameters for doing that
what what's required
okay well I think the kind of the next
thing we have to come back with them is
you know a final set of engineered
proposals of what we're going to do with
the final cost estimate and then we have
to go out to RFP to select a bidder for
it and then once we have that then you
know we have to go through I don't think
we have to go to through shipo but we
will have to go through C H Ro um and
satisfy chro and then once we have them
signed off we should be able to award
the
contract okay and if you sat there and
said a timeline on this what would you
give
us uh I'd say we'd be in construction in
the spring would be my guess so spring
of
2025 yep that would be my
guess all right and then um just because
it's it's on top of my mind here the uh
the grant or the
um um yeah there is a grant the grant
that we got for the uh senior uh
Transportation storage where are we with
that one uh we're not any further than
we were six months ago I mean to be
perfectly honest I pretty much put that
one on hold until we got the community
center done so that's kind of my next
you know that that's my next focus at
this point okay so I'm going to tell you
we got the community center done so now
when are we doing that
one well now we go back to uh to the
state historic preservation society and
say you need to get your e together and
approve our final plan which you've had
for the last year um and once we do that
then that can that should be pretty
close to depending on how we do that
um you know depending on whether we go
the design build route again or whether
we decide to hire an architect you know
or a designer to design it that's either
ready to go to RFP or we got to go
through the architecture portion
first okay
um because the community center went so
well I would suggest you leverage the
group that did that building to sit
there and and get um ad czzle and Adrien
and and Scott and Jeff Murray and people
with those types of technical skills all
together and let's get that one rolling
as fast as we can because obviously uh
you know storing the equipment for the
senior transportation is is beneficial
but also I you know as I've discussed
with you I think U utilizing the upper
floors that you you can create in that
building for storage for the community
will be a benefit because obviously
there's um storage always becomes a
problem for organizations like the rec
commission or public works or seniors so
if we can provide garage space uh on the
upper part of the U of that building it
would be it would be beneficial and and
I'm talking un uh unconditioned or you
know it doesn't need Heating and
anything else it just needs a space that
we can put basketballs or we can put
things during the offseason uh so that
it'd be beneficial to the entire
community so let's let's get working on
that one too so we can sit there and you
know at least one of these projects a
year Eric would be beneficial it would
be nice to have a a new grand opening
for something else because I think it
does show the town what we're doing and
how much we're getting accomplished
um anybody else for
Eric um just one question we're all set
we're all set with a single and double
chip right on all the roads and
sweeping um I would suspect we'll swe
we'll sweep those roads one more time at
some point uh before the fall um but
they've all been swept twice and we're
not doing any more chip sealing we're
done with chip the year yeah I was very
happy with the result once everything
kind of settled out it was it seems like
this contractor was much better and the
aggregate is a lot smoother than the
other stuff that we put down in previous
in the previous year so we definitely
use them
again good job
Eric right all right um anybody else
have one question sure for Eric about
Public Works is that um when are they
going to get around to move in the stop
sign on um woodfern and
shadblow interestingly you say that I
reminded uh Mr Tuttle uh the other day
that they needed to to get that uh
addressed um and he promised me they
would address that reasonably soon but I
mean understand too we have years of
backlogs of projects so it's really just
a question of priorities and is that
really the
priority um
so you know I I will admit I've diverted
him quite a bit to work on stuff and get
the community center to a the finish
line and I put them behind in a lot of
the
projects you know that Public Works had
planned on doing this summer but you
know that was the only way we were going
to get the senior center and Community
Center across the f Finish Line so so we
needed to do
it okay uh anybody
else okay if not we'll move on to item
nine old business uh 9A Community Center
construction update do we have anything
that we need to talk about there yeah so
the the last real major hurdle in the
community center construction is getting
the exterior lighting poles on that was
supposed to have been done by the open
house but it was not um so I'm going to
be talking to Eric again in a couple of
days and figuring out what their plan is
now to address that um because they kind
of screwed up the installation of that
which I was not real happy with um but
that will get
addressed okay uh anything
else NOP not relative to the
construction
did we ever find the projector screen no
no that's still lost in shipping I still
got to get back with Amazon and figure
out how they're going to address it
um you
know all right let me know because we'll
get that set up for the seniors for
their first movie for their first Mata
movie or whatever they want to watch
yeah yeah no it' be nice to get that in
and done and to make it usable as a
meeting space too
y uh and and while you know one of the
things that Eric I noticed and Scott um
you might be able to help because you
talked about your house and how it has
the same acoustical issues um we do need
to fix that we need to work on that
especially in that building it really
does have a lot of chatter in it you
know even worse when it's only a few
people um Soh if we can put up some
tiles and make that space of a little
bit better for hearing uh it would be uh
it would be better for the
seniors I I put up only six at my house
and it made a huge difference okay all
right
um okay um thing you could do is put up
some sort of U curtains balance
something like that fabric in the room
would help to deaden the sound too right
okay um and if you'd like to get with
Scott and work on that that would be
wonderful it would be greatly
appreciated
um all right item uh nineb discussion of
blight and level of involvement Eric any
issues related to the the blight
ordinance and current status of where
we're
at uh no nothing that you don't already
have okay
um 9C Charter revision committee we
reviewed all that so I don't think
there's any more need to go into that um
9d Board of selectman future goal
meeting uh do we have a date scheduled
for that Eric we you have not chosen a
date for that
okay
um that is something that we we should
put on our C actually you know what
let's do that in our next regularly
scheduled Board of Select meeting let's
not schedule any more new meetings we
already got enough on our plate and
meetings so um Eric please put that on
the agenda for next month and okay uh to
the members of the board please come
with two or three ideas of what you
would like to sit there and see us focus
on so as uh Eric is uh building out the
budget um if we can come to some
agreement on global themes and where we
would like to get the town to um we can
work them into the budget and how we sit
there and present uh to the board of
Finance all right is that acceptable to
everybody these These are in reference
budget no just goals like what would you
like to see the community do like I mean
I have a goal that would probably not
take any money I'd like to get more
people to volunteer for for functions
within the community that's not going to
take any money but that's a goal that I
would like to set and we'd sit there and
do it I'd like to work with Tess and and
the the new CSC to sit there and see
more recreational activities provided to
the community that won't cost any money
hopefully it'll just get us together and
allow us
to
um you know back when Andover was really
small the community got together because
they didn't have the internet they
didn't have recreational stuff they went
to church and they went to their Town
meetings and they participated now that
were 2500 voters and 3,000 and some on
residents you know we don't get together
like that like Saturday was a great day
as far as I'm concerned because that was
a hundred people that and and listen
that's 100 people out of 2500 that's not
like we crushed it but it was great to
sit there and see those 100 people all
come out and that's what we have to try
to do more often because we're a small
town we don't have a lot of money but we
have to participate a lot more so those
are my goals like certain things Scott
that I would bring up so if you bring
things like that and if you have a a
functional thing that we need to sit
there and try to spend some money on
because it's important for the town
bring it up let's sit there and see if
we can put it in the budget
so I have one suggestion for that and I
was going to suggest uh and I spoke to
him and he's willing to do it that if
we're going to do a real goal setting
planning session that we have the town
planner uh facilitate that because
that's what he does
okay is that acceptable to the
commission I think it's acceptable to
the board yeah okay yeah y good
idea and and Eric uh it will make it
much more um it would make it a lot
better A lot easier for us on our
meeting if um you get with a planner and
the planner gets us how he wants us to
present the ideas to him in beforehand
so he can be prepared to have a
conversation with us and we're not just
dragging the meeting out longer than it
needs to so let's do some Advanced
planning and do our pe's so that we can
sit there and and be as efficient as we
possibly
can can I ask all the members of the
board to email myself and the planner
ahead of time what are the ideas that
you want to put forward as your ideas we
can kind of collate them and group them
and then we can have a discussion on
them um I'm gonna suggest this you send
out an email to the planner and all the
members of the board saying this is what
they're going to do and we all respond
to that email chain is that accept
everybody else that's
fine yeah we're all on the same and give
us a deadline a date yeah okay problem
good reports yeah so so we'll have this
all prepared for the next meeting it'll
be one of our agenda items in the
September
meeting okay and one other thing on that
line uh I asked the incoming Senior
Center D SLC Community Center Director
um and the town planner to work together
jointly because one of the first things
I think we need to do is we need to
survey the residents and we need to ask
a bunch of pointed questions about the
community center and Senior Center like
what services does the public really
want and once we get enough feedback
about what people want to do then we'll
schedule programs around that that's
what I'm I'm hoping to do with that in
the short term unless you all have any
objections to
that think that's a good idea anybody
else problems no okay all right uh let's
move on to uh ninee ordinance for the
dogs on the field
um even though this should get done
right away we'd have to go to town
meeting
um what's what does everybody want to do
related to this this
item I mean we've had this problem for
you know at least two to three
years is it gonna overwhelm us right now
or do we want to wait and see what
happens in uh in November and if
uh it doesn't pass then we call it Tom
meeting right
away I think we start working on it I
think we start putting the language
together
okay so I I I'll sit there um I'll sit
there and I'll get with Dennis about
that language we should be able to sit
there and take that from another
municipality so I'll get it Dennis we'll
have something on the board for next
week next month yeah yeah because Jeff
whatever R we take we got to get this
done it's just it's it's been a
reoccurring problem yeah
understood okay I'll do that for next
month
um item 10 a new business discuss an on
certificate of ab of adoption Eric what
does that mean for us sure in your
packet uh you'll see a resolution to
adopt the capitol region national
natural Hazard mitigation Plan update so
by state law towns are required to have
a hazard mitigation
plan um so because most towns
were uh lacking and actually doing them
the towns kind of or the the state kind
of assigned that responsibility to the
the cogs um in our case the Capital
Regional Council of
governments
so uh the kog hired a team from Yukon to
develop this this is something I've seen
and sent the board at least one draft
previously of this so this is basically
their final report back which takes in a
lot of featur back from myself fire
chief blah blah blah um people involved
in in the hazard mitigation plan so but
now that they've done the work and they
have a plan the board has to formally
adopt it before it's effective so I
would just ask you as a board to adopt
the plan um so we can move
forward somebody want to make that
motion
okay I will let's just make this motion
one second I gotta get back to it uh I
make a motion that we approve the
resolution adopting the capital region
natural Hazard mitigation Plan update
for 2024 to
2029 I'll second all right further
discussion what the plan what is the
plan it doesn't tell us it just says
we're it's the resolution adopting it I
don't want to vote on something I don't
know what it is then you have to go read
it I mean I read what's in our our
packet it doesn't really tell me we've
adopted that okay so it's a natural
Hazard mitigation plan so if we have a a
monstrous natural disaster that the plan
that is put in place by KAG will assist
us to go through it because we as a
community are not going to sit there and
draft our own plan if you'd like to go
read it you can go read it where is it
so it's on the kog website or CRA or
whatever it is where is it so um does
anyone have a pro a problem with
approving the resolution to adopt the
regional group that we belong to as a
community for a natural hazardous
mitigation we have
previously signed that yeah yeah that's
correct right actually think this board
did it twice yeah two times if you want
to wait and you want me to get you a
copy of the plan and read through the
plan but my question is how many of you
will actually sit there and read through
the plan if if that's what you want to
do I will get you the plan then then
just get the plan when does this need to
go
on ah they can wait another month okay
fine how big of a thing is
this I'll bet it's over 50 pages
in so anyway Eric send it to us if a
brief idea of what it is no problem I
have no problem with requesting that
yeah um so Eric we put on the sign in
that off till September all right please
send us the full PDF and then that way
we can look at it yep okay thank you yep
uh item 11 approval of the minute
meetings from the uh July 8th 2024 for a
regular
meeting I make a motion to accept the
meeting minutes of the July 88th uh 2024
regular
meeting I'll second that wow all right
wasn't here so F further
discussion all those in favor I
right all those opposed all those that
abstain four
okay all right um item 12 uh treasurer's
report that was in our package um Eric
two things for me uh one is
um please
have you know this this all works in
conjunction the tax collector's report
flows into the the revenue side of this
and so please get the revenues posted so
that when we're looking at these we
understand what's up so I'm not sitting
there saying they're not in the bank
account I just don't know where they are
in relation to the document that that
we're looking at because when I look at
our budgeted revenue of of
12,72 th000 and I don't see anything
posted for the first month even if it's
just a you know a rolling number it
should be there so we're all good with
it okay so that's one and then the other
one is uh in reviewing the expenses the
checks I should say there's something
called Spring can you tell me what that
is yeah I noticed that
too like Scott
yeah I want to say spring is the actual
insurance payments that we're making um
it's quite it's quite possible they're
they're really big pay there's two there
there there's two so if you can just get
an understanding for that for us because
that would that would help me understand
like the larger expenses because I mean
that's what I do when I go through this
I look and and I'm assuming like
um like sandir bank has some specific
issue that you know I'd like to know
that as well like when you write as the
pay or the name sandre Bank I'd like to
know what it's for you know just and I
will continue to ask you specific
questions like that stuff just so we can
sure so spring spring and santon D Bank
were two that that to me I was like I
didn't understand them exactly and um
and and then the other one was just CN
wood of
Connecticut uh CN wood supplies
equipment to Public Works they're the
company that has the contract that deals
with our sweeper um and I think we have
some other there's some other things we
buy from them um those are typically
vehicle related Public Works
expenses okay and the payment to the
state of Connecticut was uh in July was
for the state trooper for prior year
correct correct that was the big payment
y
okay but it was less than we forecast
which was
good okay and Corner Contracting related
to the community center cormer
Contracting that's the chip seal the
company that does Chip seal for us all
right colmer I'm sorry I read that wrong
yeah my bad okay all right thank you
anybody else have any other questions
related to the treasures
report okay um we'll move on to the tax
collector's
report so July's big month July was a
3,359 58 collection month in the month
of
July
so that's all the real estate personal
property and motor vehicle payments
Allin one so it'll be the biggest month
of the
year all right any other questions
related to
that no I mean all the Motor Vehicles
are due um but we rarely get I mean you
know we got more than we got almost
three quarters of that in in the first
quarter the rest will trickle in during
the year as people realize they have to
pay to renew their their
stuff understood right um we have uh
three refund requests on page 38 of the
package
so my favorite thing and I'll probably
be on one of these soon but I'll make a
motion that we pass uh we provide three
refunds I don't have the total amount
for these but it's um
15938 oh there it is
15938 total tax refunds for
$59.38 I'll second all right any further
discussion all those in favor I
hi all right move on to that okay
departmental reports in the
package there's the assessor
report anybody anybody have any
questions on any of the information that
was yeah the the building department
used to give us a report for all the
permits where the permits were issued to
know the and don't see that this
time uh I know I've seen this this
Global page so total building permits
total zoning permits total permits yeah
the overall page is there but there used
to be specific to all the permits and
where they were who they were issued to
yeah and houses or whatever it was you
want a list of all the names of
everybody that pulled no I'm just
questioning if it that is the what what
happened previously
right um if it's available why not
Eric I I remember
it I mean if it's not if it's not you
know I know we have this new system so
if it's accessible from the new system
without a tremendous amount of work
right right I don't want anybody to work
yeah I'm just I'm just questioning that
I used to see that information still
yeah no problem and it's still
like I would like to sit there and see a
little profit and loss for the building
department to understand how the
building department is doing versus its
overall expenses because as we issue
building permits we should look at as a
town that we want to cover at a bare
minimum the cost of the clerk and the
building inspector as best we possibly
can um and it would help for us to to
have that type of dumy Eric and in that
way we can understand understand whether
we need to be looking at raising those
permit fees to increase our Revenue
drive so that we can cover those basic
expenses for that department
um
so we got that think I think at least it
used to be who the contractor
was what they were
doing
um first of all every single permit
that's applied for in permit link is
public record and you could simply go on
permit link and and pull every look at
every single one that you want to maybe
that's what it is it's that's when it
changed yeah so
link
um I'm just trying to figure out what
other data from permit link I can give
you I'll have to work with Lynn um on
that um well see if there's something
available and then we can all go on
permanently just to sit there and
familiarize ourselves but really this is
just a global thing for me is the
building department should be able to
fund itself as best as best we possibly
can because if it's not funding itself
then we have time issues like who's
doing what when and I know your building
inspector goes out and does a lot and I
know the um
the zoning enforcement officer has you
know is also tied up in all this too so
I'm not being critical I'm just saying
is is a global sense we should really
look at it as it needs to generate
enough money to cover itself as best we
can without Town having to put taxpayer
dollars into funding that
department okay anybody else have any
other questions I mean the only other
two reports I could said I said we had
assessor report in this package and we
had the senior Transportation report in
this one and the register our voters
those were the three reports that I see
in my package unless I'm inaccurate is
that what I'm seeing Eric or those are
the three no that's correct the only
other thing I wanted to highlight is
that we did just get through with six
days of early
voting um uh which almost nobody went to
um just in labor costs alone this vote
costs us about
$750 for every single vote cast just in
Personnel cost now the good news is the
state foot the bill for that but um you
know unless they come through with
another appropriation which they may or
may not do we're about to have run
through all the money that the state
gave us for early elections
um and it's going to maybe be worse
because certainly in the fall election
there's 14 days of early voting required
whereas this election only had six days
of early voting um in most of the days
you know we had two Personnel here for
between 10 and 12 hours a day um because
early voting has pretty long hours and
got exactly zero people that came and
voted now it was a primary and it wasn't
a you know one that was particularly
well publicized but but I'm hoping that
the state revisits its scheme for doing
early voting because we're spending an
awful lot of money for uh essentially no
additional participation from the
public I have a oh go go ahead Jeff you
were gonna say something no no no Scott
Y no you so are you done with the voting
thing Eric I'm I got another question
for you
oh I want to go back to the voting thing
so you can give me a second so uh that's
something that we need to talk to to
Steve we and MD about
because that's something like why why
are we forcing our registar of Voters to
do this in a primary I mean there's not
enough voting in those anyway so I I
understand November I get what they're
trying to do with November
but we need to go back to to them and
talk to them
yeah I agree Jeff because small we're
yeah we're a small municipality we're
not a big urban city and it's
just it's it's a huge uh time and money
suck just for to spend on the amount of
people that actually participating I it
might it might work in Bridgeport or New
Haven or Harford but it's just not a
good model for
Handover I agree and and and I think
what's going to happen Jee is that
you're you'll find is you can do this on
a primary and force us to do it on a
primary I mean you don't get anybody
coming to
vote anyway we we need to do it we need
to talk to them because the it's going
to be an unfunded mandate and we're
gonna end up getting stuck with it and
we shouldn't a bill at some point right
yeah yeah we're not the only Community
that's probably dealing with this at
this point so I'm sure there's many
communi are probably going to get a lot
of push back from smaller towns so
hopefully something will
get and for the record tomorrow is
elections so if you're a republican feel
free to come down and cast your vote
tomorrow for your favorite uh Senate
candidate
um all right
um that is something we'll have to deal
with okay any other questions on
anything else I question for I have a
question for Eric SP I forgot to ask you
on your administrator's report but is
there any new news on what now that the
community center
is nearly finished what what is going on
with the engineer report for
school have you heard anything
no or who they're going to pick for an
engineer or anything going on with
that well I I don't know one would
presume
that if they had an engineer that they
wanted to choose since the board of
Selectmen is the building owner that
they would present that um to the board
of
Selectmen
um it would have been nice as a courtesy
to allow me to know who that person was
and actually meet them ahead of time
which is certainly what I did when I
found an engineer to give us an estimate
for the building
um you know and made sure that the
school board was notified and the
principal was notified and they were
there when we did the walk through of
the building but I have not heard
anything back from anybody on that end
of
things and it appears you have some
information for us I know that they are
working with an engineering company a
company that will cover a lot of
different things I don't remember the
name of it I do know know they're
actively working on that and have found
a company they
like um I'm not sure what else is done
but I do know they've been working on so
er
knows Eric we'll we'll get to that so um
uh I will reach out to Celeste and I'll
ask Celeste where they're at and what
they're doing so let me get through this
meeting I'll do that and Eric if they're
moving forward with that and they
haven't communicated with us which I
know is your issue then yes where the
money is coming from is going to be
problematic all right okay um go ahead
Jeff um I know we had a couple emails
going back and forth about the gym fans
has that been rectified as far as do we
need to make a motion tonight or do
anything to move that project ahead or
is that just in the board of finances uh
plate right now
so the kind of the hold up with that Jeb
there there were two issues one was
that the company wanted to do the gym
floors as soon as possible so they had
the maximum amount of cure time before
the kids came back and there was no way
we're getting the fans done ahead of
time before that and the second thing is
is that the the bill for
installation was pretty high and that
assumes having Lenco do the
commissioning also because bringing in
the company to do the commissioning was
also pretty expensive so that's high
that's a high enough bill that that
really either technically needs to go to
RFP or I got to go to the board of
finance and
request an exception for that which they
may or may not Grant um part of the
reason why I wanted to slow roll that
project for a while was because we spent
an awful lot of money out of the the
building maintenance fund dealing with
the HCK in the town hall um as well as
all the electrical work that was done
and I needed to wait until I got the Lo
siip money reimbursed to the town for
those projects because frankly I didn't
want to run over budget until I knew I
was getting reimbursed from the state
from the other work so I got one
reimbursement check um the other one got
bounced back to me because I had a
rounding error and I was off 41 cents um
in my submission um so I have
resubmitted that uh rounded correctly um
so I I think we can revisit that but
that is going to be a fairly expensive
project and I I think we we want to kind
of look at that and i' be happy to to go
over that with you offline if you want
um but yeah sound good I I just think
long-term Energy savings in that gym is
it's it's going to be worth it even if
we do have a high initial cost so yeah
let's get together and talk about that
okay not a
problem okay anybody else for Eric
before we move
on okay we're gonna go to item 15
correspondence Eric nothing good we'll
move on to item 16 public speak uh Diane
granier there I am oh good
grief I know um no nothing nothing to
add or whatever just uh thank you all
it's a a good meeting like always I I
think you guys hold a very good meeting
and uh I'm one of the few people that
stay till the end so um thank thank you
very much thanks Diane thanks Diane Jody
gross thanks Jeff I was uh actually
hoping Bob was going to stay on because
I wanted to thank him for chairing the
charter commission um I think Bob did an
excellent job wanted to give him that
recognition we had healthy debate on
just about every issue and really our
Focus was around government governmental
efficiency right helping make our town
run easier better more more efficient uh
becoming more of uh not a town of a
thousand people but a town of you know
over 3,000 people so things like a a
real professional um ensuring that we
get a professional in as a clerk and not
just a popularity contest every four
years um we've been fortunate to have
Carol but um um you know just a great
group of people um healthy debate with
folks like Adrien Etc and just
appreciated the board of Selectmen for
really seeing that in all of those items
supporting them with the one
modification so um great job uh in such
a short period of time I also heard a
say a stop sign is g to get moved and um
that one actually directly impacts me so
it sounds like there's a stop sign
moving from Shad blow to uh or woodfern
to Shad woodern to Shad blow yeah and I
walk my dogs twice a day using that
crosswalk of the sidewalk that actually
goes right in front of that stop sign um
and so I guess I'm disappointed to hear
that the town is planning to move that
um because cars do fly down there none
of the people on this call but I do see
cars moving very fast because I'm
literally the house or two houses after
that stop sign and they accelerate so
I'm a little scared that I'll be walking
without that and I guess I would be okay
if we were going to add a stop sign
that's what I just gonna say Jody why
don't we just add one as opposed to
removing or changing need one on Shad
I'm sorry we really need one on Shad
blow
because one but if you're gonna be
removing it that's not not a great look
uh because you're kind of there's a
crosswalk
there everybody comes up
uh Dogwood there's no stop sign at
Dogwood yet people coming the opposite
way on wooder and have a stop sign yeah
coming up wood coming up wood uh Shad
blow there could be a stop sign is that
where you were going to put it yeah that
makes sense but I would leave that one
there that's there and simply add
another because you're there's a
crosswalk there and I walk that twice a
day with my dogs and my wife and I don't
want to get run over so um make it so
two cents hold on hold on you you all
are the local traffic Authority I'm just
your agent so if you want two stop signs
you need to vote for two stop signs
that's not that's that's your decision
not mine certainly je Jeff Murray do you
have a say in any of this what what say
you um
I don't know I've been you know to be
honest with you that stop sign on Shadow
I mean I've been there in the winter
months when I've I get to that
intersection because people don't
realize it there is a pretty good grade
there because I ride up my bicycle up
there quite a bit it's probably like a
good 3% grade and putting the stop sign
up there on on an intersection where we
were going to move it I started to think
after the fact that it may be difficult
in the winter months um and I kind of
see Jody's point I I kind of I kind of
think protecting that crosswalk there is
you know I didn't really think about
that when we first approved that but I
think that you know he did have he does
have a good observation and I do see him
walking a lot so he does have a good ear
you know and a good good point with that
so I I don't
know it's a it's it's not a very big
traveled road so
it's but I I definitely see protecting
that crosswalk is probably a good thing
um I don't know maybe maybe we need to
look at it a little bit
more I think you need if anybody you
need a stop sign on the Dogwood side
more than you need it on the wood Fern
side because the crosswalk is right
there at the end of
dogwood people come up that hill on
Dogwood and just go right on
through I'll tell you what we'll put it
off we'll put it off till next next
month and we'll all go out and see that
I'll take I'll take my dog over there
and Jody and I can go for a walk yeah
and I I would suggest maybe just your
suggesting the people that live right
there that guy in the corner Dave
probably have a conversation he stop
sign moved what's that he does want it
moved he wants that stop stop sign moved
to Shad blow really
interesting let's let's let's get
together and next month we'll come up
with a definitive plan and J just from a
standpoint I appreciate your uh efforts
on the charter revision commission and
and I would recommend you know I'm am a
big believer in uh the smartest possible
people participating in government and
uh I would ask you to get involved if
you have the time when you have the time
um you know I think it'd be a really
good fit so knowing that you're a
registered Republican go over to the
Republican Town committee and get on
something Board of Finance Board of
selectman I don't care what it is I
think it'd be a great fit right we do
have we do have an opening on the board
of
Finance maybe I'll talk to Adrian and
understand what that really means so all
right all right bye guys thanks thanks
Jord all right I think uh we are done
with um uh public speak I don't have
anybody else left uh so we're gonna move
on to community voice
channel that is the people who do the
taping of the
the community CH so um we're going to
now move to Executive session so I'll
make a motion we move to Executive
session I'll second all right all those
in favor I Eric if you can and and we're
inviting Eric my bad so Eric if you can
stop the recording and you know move
eliminate the community voice that would
be
great uh I'm going to work on
that but
do I have to do it I don't I don't have
host I don't have the host app anymore
okay I got CVC in the the waiting
room um how
do I don't see any under host
tools it was under more you have to you
have to go to participate participant
list and you have to pass the host to
somebody no that's not my question my
question is how do I stop the recording
isn't it under
more it's hidden
yeah like I have a I have request
permission to record on this computer no
I don't have that
so or just pass me the host and I'll
stop
it do that
all right so how do I pass you the host
go into participant list and next to my
name the drop- down menu
more got
it and I'll stop the
recording oh all right it gives me the
option to stop video
there okay but it didn't do anything all
right
host it says host has stopped the video
so oh but why did I his little light is
still
blinking Paula King is the host
now you the host okay so Community voice
channels in the waiting room okay good
now did we did we make a motion to go
into executive session yes okay so now
I'm stopping the video
um
wow that's a thing this looks totally
different than it looks like on my
computer it's it it got kind of botched
up
huh um does it still say does it still
say recording on your screens because